README.md, before:

# 👁️ Peekr: Browser-based Eye Tracking

**Peekr** is a lightweight, browser-compatible webcam eye tracking module. It runs entirely in the browser — no installation, no data sent to a server.

> [!TIP]
> You can test it on [GitHub Pages](https://hugofara.github.io/peekr/).

## 🎓 Background

Peekr was developed by **Aryaman Taore**, a visual neuroscientist and machine learning engineer. The project emerged during Aryaman's PhD at the University of Auckland and continued through his postdoctoral research at **Stanford University**. Peekr's underlying ML model was trained on **268,000+ image frames** from **264 participants** recruited via Prolific. Each participant used their own personal setup.

**Accuracy** (after calibration):

* Mean horizontal error: **1.53 cm** (~1.75° visual angle)
* Mean vertical error: **2.20 cm** (~2.52° visual angle)
These results were obtained from 30 randomly selected participants using their own setups, with no supervision. Each participant followed a stimulus on screen after completing a simple 5-dot calibration. The calibration consisted of four dots in the corners and one in the center of the screen. After this, a linear fit was applied separately to the x and y axes to adjust the gaze predictions.

## 🧪 Demo (with Calibration Panel)

I have attached a `public/index.html` demo file. To run this demo, follow these steps:

1. First, build the project by running the following command:

   ```bash
   npm install
   npm run build
   ```

2. Then, run the demo using npm with the following command:

   ```bash
   npm run serve
   ```

3. Start by loading the model ("Init Eye Tracking"). Then, either adjust the calibration values by yourself, or use the "Assisted Calibration" utility.

## 🧠 Available Functions

### `Peekr.initEyeTracking({ onReady, onGaze })`

Initializes the webcam, loads the ONNX model, and sets up gaze detection.

* `onReady`: Called once the model is loaded and initialized.
* `onGaze(gaze)`: Called every frame with the gaze prediction:

  ```js
  gaze.output.cpuData = [x, y]; // Both values in range ~[0, 1]
  ```

### `Peekr.runEyeTracking()`

Starts real-time gaze prediction.

### `Peekr.stopEyeTracking()`

Stops webcam and gaze processing.

## 📁 Files Included

| File          | Purpose                         |
| ------------- | ------------------------------- |
| `index.js`    | Main entry module               |
| `worker.js`   | Off-main-thread gaze processing |
| `peekr.onnx`  | Gaze detection model            |
| `.wasm` files | ONNX Runtime Web WASM backend   |

---

## 🚀 Load via npm

```bash
npm install peekr
```

Then:

```js
import * as Peekr from 'peekr';
```

## 📦 Publishing

To build and publish:

```bash
npm run build
npm publish --access public
```

Make sure your `dist/` includes the model, worker, and all necessary WASM files.

## 🧠 Credits

Built by **Aryaman Taore** at [Dakin Lab](https://www.dakinlab.org) and [Stanford Brain Development & Education Lab](https://edneuro.stanford.edu).

The web part received major changes from [Hugo Fara](https://hugofara.net).
It includes a new calibration set up and a Kalman filtering of the output.

## 🗪 License

[MIT](https://mit-license.org/)

Commit message:

feat(builder): switch from rollup to vite. The WebAssebly packages are integrated in a cleaner way. Last commit had wrong message.

README.md, after:

# 👁️ Peekr: Browser-based Eye Tracking

**Peekr** is a lightweight, browser-compatible webcam eye tracking module. It runs entirely in the browser — no installation, no data sent to a server.

> [!TIP]
> You can test it on [GitHub Pages](https://hugofara.github.io/peekr/).

## 🎓 Background

Peekr was developed by **Aryaman Taore**, a visual neuroscientist and machine learning engineer. The project emerged during Aryaman's PhD at the University of Auckland and continued through his postdoctoral research at **Stanford University**. Peekr's underlying ML model was trained on **268,000+ image frames** from **264 participants** recruited via Prolific. Each participant used their own personal setup.

**Accuracy** (after calibration):

* Mean horizontal error: **1.53 cm** (~1.75° visual angle)
* Mean vertical error: **2.20 cm** (~2.52° visual angle)
These results were obtained from 30 randomly selected participants using their own setups, with no supervision. Each participant followed a stimulus on screen after completing a simple 5-dot calibration. The calibration consisted of four dots in the corners and one in the center of the screen. After this, a linear fit was applied separately to the x and y axes to adjust the gaze predictions.

## 🧪 Demo (with Calibration Panel)

A demo should be available at <https://hugofara.github.io/peekr/>.

Start by loading the model ("Init Eye Tracking").
Then, either adjust the calibration values by yourself, or use the "Assisted Calibration" utility.

## Build

You can rebuild the package with [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/download) and Vite.

You can start the demo with the following command:

```bash
npm install
npm run dev
```

If you only want to generate the website, use `npm run build`.
The output will be in the `dist/` folder.

## 🧠 Available Functions

### `Peekr.initEyeTracking({ onReady, onGaze })`

Initializes the webcam, loads the ONNX model, and sets up gaze detection.

* `onReady`: Called once the model is loaded and initialized.
* `onGaze(gaze)`: Called every frame with the gaze prediction:

  ```js
  gaze.output.cpuData = [x, y]; // Both values in range ~[0, 1]
  ```

### `Peekr.runEyeTracking()`

Starts real-time gaze prediction.

### `Peekr.stopEyeTracking()`

Stops webcam and gaze processing.

## 📁 Files Included

| File          | Purpose                         |
| ------------- | ------------------------------- |
| `index.js`    | Main entry module               |
| `worker.js`   | Off-main-thread gaze processing |
| `peekr.onnx`  | Gaze detection model            |
| `.wasm` files | ONNX Runtime Web WASM backend   |

---

## 🚀 Load via npm

From the official version of peekr.

```bash
npm install peekr
```

Then:

```js
import * as Peekr from 'peekr';
```

## 📦 Publishing

To build and publish:

```bash
npm run build
npm publish --access public
```

Make sure your `dist/` includes the model, worker, and all necessary WASM files.

## 🧠 Credits

Built by **Aryaman Taore** at [Dakin Lab](https://www.dakinlab.org) and [Stanford Brain Development & Education Lab](https://edneuro.stanford.edu).

The web part received major changes from [Hugo Fara](https://hugofara.net).
It includes a new calibration set up and a Kalman filtering of the output.

## 🗪 License

[MIT](https://mit-license.org/)
